Maud is secretly raising
an army to regain the throne.
God is on your side.
Then why hasn't he put Maud
and her bastard brother down?
His Majesty, King Stephen!
If you wish,
you may join my army
to prove your loyalty.
Give him the knighthood
and title he deserves.
And may God save England.
With your father's death,
he will.
(Screaming)
I miss you so...
I'm Tom of Kingsbridge.
We'll be quarrying this stone
to build our new cathedral.
Your good bishop
doesn't care a whit
for your precious cathedral.
(Horses neighing)
But where is
the statue of St. Adolphus?
Tears of blood.
One king destroys...
(Screaming)
Sync by honeybunny
www.addic7ed.com
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
(Horse snorting)
(Horse neighing)
(All shouting, screaming)
(Screaming)
(Birds cawing)
(Exhaling)
I'm feeling much better
from this ague, my dear.
My physician says that
I should be on my feet
in a week.
Oh, I am so relieved,
my darling!
Mmm... Ah...
(Exhaling)
Any word from William?
Well, the king's army
have engaged Maud at Lincoln.
Her half brother, Gloucester,
is away in France,
so he can't help her.
She's held it for 4 years now,
and it's time we took it back.
Oh, there's a new knight
fighting for Stephen,
William says,
who no one's ever heard of.
Very mysterious fellow.
Learned to fight in France.
But evidently quite
extraordinary. Hmm!
Our sweet William,
I fear, is jealous.
(Chuckles)
He can be so
like a child sometimes.
What's this, my dear?
Oh, the doctor said
you needed to be bled.
He's too busy to
do it, of course.
Oh, bless you.
Mmm!
(Grunting)
(Grunts)
William is being held back,
but not by some
anonymous knight.
He's nearly 25 years old.
He needs to marry
and give us grandchildren.
There are plenty of
women who'd have him.
None of sufficient
nobility, my love.
And if he can't marry a title,
he shall have to inherit one.
Are you suggesting that
I retire and give him mine?
(Laughs)
I know you'd never
agree to that.
Not in my prime, I wouldn't!
There, that's quite
enough, my dear.
You drink too much, Percy.
Your tongue's too loose.
I fear you've cut too deep.
No, my sweet.
(Grunting)
Not deep enough.
(Screaming)
(Man):
Climb up the ladder!
(Percy grunting)
Ah...
(Panting)
We need more steel and daggers!
(Screaming)
Stephen's army
has us surrounded.
We've been besieged for weeks.
How am I supposed to eat
when everyone else
is starving for my sake?
You must keep up
your strength, my Queen.
Where is Gloucester?
My brother has never
abandoned us before!
He should be arriving soon.
Why isn't he coming?
Gloucester may indeed
be raising forces
to rescue his sister,
Your Majesty.
But we have surrounded
Lincoln castle,
and shortly they will starve.
Excellent!
The end is in sight.
You are to be congratulated,
young man.
You hear that, Eustace?
The crown will be yours,
after all.
Yes, yes!
My... condolences
on your father's death.
An ague can be
so unpredictable.
He was a loyal subject.
As am I, Your Majesty,
as I hope to be
as the new earl.
Yes, quite.
We...
We have some problems
regarding the earldom.
- Your Majesty?
- There is another claimant.
Is he here?
(All murmuring)
Richard of Kingsbridge,
champion of the battlefield.
You have, indeed,
proved your loyalty
against your father's treason.
I will weigh your claim
most carefully.
I ask for nothing
more, My King.
How did Richard get the money
to become a knight?
The armor alone
costs a small fortune!
It seems he has
a wealthy sister.
I'm the earl!
I'm the rightful earl!
Richard lost that claim
when his father lost his head!
Getting soldiers is
all the king cares about.
Raise an army to finish Maud,
he'll give you
whatever you want.
Easily said, but where
do we get the means to do it?
The market at Kingsbridge
sucks the money out of Shiring.
Kingsbridge gets the rents,
the taxes, business...
Close the market.
How? The king
has licensed it!
Oh yes.
Unfortunately, he has.
What?
If I close the market for you,
will you close
the quarry for me?
Hmm!
(Rain falling)
Still trying to
stop that cathedral
so you can build
your precious palace?
How will you close the market?
I haven't worked that out yet.
Have you got any
brilliant ideas, William?
A fire.
Start a fire.
It's worked for you before.
- Hush, William.
- Mother...
I said quiet!
William might be right.
A fire...
But a small one this time.
(Oxen grunting)
(Workers shouting, indistinct)
(Hammering)
Check that windlass, Jack!
Make sure
it's well-greased.
That big wheel needs to go up.
I'm impressed, Prior Philip.
You've made astonishing
progress since I left.
And it's not just
the church, Richard.
Everyone has
the money to buy things.
The town is 3 times
the size of what it was,
5 times on market day!
They want to buy
your sister's wool.
They come to see the only
female wool merchant
in this part of England.
Grown men quake
at the sight of me.
Now, don't hit your thumb.
Right? Right?
Right.
Ooh!
(Laughing): See?
(Man):
Still working on that, sir?
Want me to get it for you?
We're enclosing the east end
while we work on the rest.
This will protect the altar
from weather and dust.
You look tired and happy, Tom.
I am. And I am.
Are you free Thursday next?
I'm giving a dinner in honor
of Richard's safe return.
Thank you.
It would be my pleasure.
You're invited too, Jack!
(♪ Flutes ♪)
Have you ever killed a giant?
Yes, as a matter
of fact, I have.
- How big?
- As big as this house.
Oh! Was there a lot of blood?
No, because I frightened him.
He was afraid of mice,
so I put one down his trousers.
It terrified him so much,
he dropped down dead.
(Laughing)
Can I see your dagger?
Ahh!
(Laughing)
He's a darling, isn't he?
Better off here than
with his real parents.
His da was a cutpurse,
most likely,
and his mother, a whore.
A tender trap, the world.
I left my sister
to join the priory.
I raised her since infancy,
and she took to the streets.
I'll never forgive
myself for that.
This is your love line.
Oh, I see you have
many female admirers!
What's funny, Martha?
Don't you admire me?
Definitely not!
I do. I think your cathedral
work is lovely, Alfred.
Thank you, Aliena.
(Martha giggling)
Jack's turn.
Oh, come on!
Oh, your hand
has healed nicely.
St. Adolphus must have
worked a miracle!
Oh, how odd!
Your love line's split,
marked with little crosses.
You love 2 women, Jack,
who treat you very badly.
Two?
Mistress Work
and Mother Church!
(Laughing)
(Insects chirping)
Prior Philip?
Take it to him.
Ha!
♪ In Nottingham
there lives a jolly tanner ♪
♪ With a hey
Down, down, a down, down ♪
♪ His name,
it was Arthur a Bland ♪
♪ There is nary a squire
in Nottingham Shire ♪
♪ Dare bid bold Arthur
did stand ♪
♪ And as he went forth
in a summer's morning ♪
♪ With a hey
Down, down, a down, down ♪
♪ The forest
of merry Sherwood ♪
♪ To view the red deer
that range here and there ♪
♪ There met he
a crook in a hood ♪
(Fire crackling)
Your Eminence.
(Screaming)
My little fire
has done its work.
And I'm about to complete
my end of the bargain.
How soon will you
close the quarry?
Unfortunately,
we have a problem.
Nothing serious, I hope.
A matter of life and death.
Eternal life.
You see, the only way to close
the quarry involves bloodshed.
Innocent lives shall be lost.
My son shall burn in hell
for your sins.
That's why you've been
a reluctant enforcer, William?
Mother's always
been afraid of fire.
But the fires of hell
are eternal.
On your knees.
Are you sorry
for all the lives
taken by your sword
in the past and in the future?
Oh yes.
Ego te absolvo.
Do what you must.
(Exhales)
Oh, thank you.
(Neighing)
(Cow mooing)
My Lord Bishop.
What brings us
this great honor?
Save the sarcasm, Philip.
Order from the Sheriff.
It's forbidden to run a market
without a license
from the king.
But we have a license.
May I see it?
(Grunting)
(Sighing)
Ah, it's been stolen.
The Sheriff
has no record of it.
Then he's a liar.
I think you are
the liar, Philip.
As of next month,
the market moves to Shiring.
Why should this concern you?
- All Satan's lies concern me.
- I'm not Satan!
You're an obstruction
to God's rule,
which is the Church,
which is Satan's adversary.
I am part of the Church!
Then why do you defy me?
Obey me.
I obey God before you!
The Church has rules
and hierarchy!
- I obey my heart...
- Kneel before me...
now!
Proud Philip.
I'll appeal to the king.
The king is preoccupied
at the moment.
He's about to win a war.
(Screaming)
AHH!
(Loud grunting)
(Neighing)
(Screaming)
(Men shouting, indistinct)
(Animals clucking)
(Birds chirping)
(Clanking)
You're the witch's son, right?
She's not a witch.
Words.
How did you recognize me?
We've never met.
The hair!
It's my father's hair,
not hers.
You knew him?
- I've heard his story, yes.
- No, more than that.
You saw him.
Was that before or after
he was falsely accused?
Your affection for
a father you never met
is touching but misplaced.
I thought you'd know better
than to take your mother's
word on his character,
which I know only by hearsay.
But the details are
very persuasive.
He stole a chalice,
a vessel who holds
the blood of Christ.
Blasphemy.
He impregnated a novice.
And he died without repenting.
Blasphemy.
Words.
Yes, I'm good with words.
We all have our talents.
Yours are just as obvious.
May I?
(Laughing)
Breathtaking little devils!
Yes...
You seem to know them well.
(♪ Singing ♪)
Who told you to carve this?
Otto dead, and four others!
Good-hearted,
God-fearing people
who deserved the right
to peace and justice
from their Lord!
Enough to make angels weep!
You must go to the king.
He can get back
the quarry and the market.
Richard goes to
Lincoln on the morrow.
The king awaits him there.
Can you spare Jack for a week?
He can best explain
our construction needs.
(Chattering, indistinct)
No, that's fine.
Needs to be a little bit darker.
Good morning, Jack!
What brings you to town?
I'm here to ask Richard
if Prior Philip and I may
accompany him to Lincoln.
Oh, he'll be happy
for the company.
But he's not here at present.
He's trying to win a kiss
from the blacksmith's daughter.
Would you like to wait for him?
I expect him back soon.
Have you seen my weaving room?
It's not much,
but it's all I need.
My new palace!
Do you miss the old one?
Oh, Lord no!
I miss my father
and I miss the people
I lived with.
But I don't miss the obligations
or the pretensions.
I certainly don't miss
my innocence or my ignorance,
whatever it is you call it.
I'm happy.
Well, you've earned it.
Are you? Happy?
Am I happy...
I think so. I think...
Especially when I'm at work.
When I work,
I hear these voices.
Whose? The voices of angels?
Are you some kind of saint?
No, voices from the stone.
When I carve it,
it tells me where to cut it.
The stone speaks to you?
No, not the stone,
but what it wants to be.
So the saint or the gargoyle
or the tiniest corner
of the cathedral...
It doesn't even have to
have a face. It can be...
a line or a design
or the curve of an arch.
It's not a...
It's not a voice.
It's a...
It is an image,
but it's the sound
of an image, so...
I can't describe it.
(Chuckling):
I'm very sorry.
I just...
I know when my...
when my chisel hits the rock,
that the rock's in tune.
It's a song.
That's it.
It's a song of what will be.
How very fortunate you are.
There you are, Jack.
Da wants you.
They're mortaring the arches.
(Exhales)
(Chuckles)
(Horse snorting)
(People shouting in distance)
(Laughing)
Yeah, go on!
Get out of here!
(Woman laughing)
(Woman):
You're afraid of us?
(Grunting)
Whoa!
Ah! You did well,
young Richard.
(Horse whinnying)
(Man):
Put them over there.
Maud now controls
only the inner walls.
The bitch won't
escape me this time.
Richard of Kingsbridge!
Welcome back!
It's good to be back,
My Lord King.
The siege is going well?
Monstrously well.
Barely a month and already
the people are starving.
They toss their dead
over the wall by the hour.
The stench is awful but
the smell of victory is sweet.
Ah!
I see you've brought a monk
with you as your squire.
This is the Prior
of Kingsbridge, Lord.
Oh yes, Prior Philip.
Well, have you come
to fight for me?
I am here because God's work
needs help, My Lord King.
If it were God's work,
then He should do it Himself.
I'm busy.
As a boon to me, your Majesty,
would you hear him out?
Take off your robe.
Your Majesty?
You heard me.
Strip.
You're more prideful
than you used to be.
Oh, I don't wish to see
your pasty body.
I wish to wear
your filthy clothes.
William of Shiring?
Yes, My Lord?
Find him a tunic.
(Horse whinnying)
(Man talking, indistinct)
(Chuckling)
(People chuckling)
(Speaking Latin)
I've wanted to take a look
around the city walls,
and if I'm dressed as a monk,
they won't shoot at me.
You, on the other hand,
are an easy target.
Perhaps it is God's will that
I should die to save the king.
I've never
understood God's will.
(Crow cawing)
(Both grunting)
Do you think He wills that?
I don't know, My Lord.
(Flies buzzing)
I only ask God for one life:
Maud's.
She doesn't even need to
be killed, simply handed over.
But instead they let
their children go hungry
and their grandparents
waste away to bones.
It's their choice.
It's not mine.
And it's certainly not God's.
Look!
Are you frightened, Philip?
(Man shouting, indistinct)
Well, the archers
are very good.
Yes, My Lord,
I'm very frightened.
If I am killed, will you
re-license Kingsbridge market?
Ah. Well, now we
get to the point.
Well, don't you have a license?
- It's been lost.
- Will you pay for a new one?
Yes, unless you're willing to
grant it freely for God's glory.
(Crow cawing)
Well, you're a proud
and frugal man.
Will you give me the right to
take stone from the quarry?
Didn't I give you
that right before?
Yes, but you took it away.
Ah, yes.
Yes, that's because
I was warned about you.
By whom?
By the bishop?
- It doesn't matter now.
- Prior!
(Henry): Whose hair of flame?
An artist boy's.
One king he crowns,
one king destroys.
That boy with the red hair?
I want him dead by morning.
My Lord! My Lord King!
Gloucester's army
is coming to free Maud.
They'll be here
by mid-afternoon.
Good.
Prepare for battle.
Your Majesty! The market
license and the quarry?
Denied.
(Man):
Grab your weapons, boys!
(Snorting)
(Whinnying)
(Neighing)
(Man shouting, indistinct)
(Neighing, snorting)
(Baby crying in distance)
Our only hope now
is if Stephen is defeated.
Normally, at this hour,
I'm on my knees,
singing God's praise.
Do you pray, Jack?
My work I think of
as a kind of prayer.
Some of God's greatest artists
and writers and musicians
were religious.
Pray with me.
Oh!
Oh dear.
My, uh, my beads.
They must have fallen off
when I took off my robe.
Go to the church, would you?
See if someone's found them?
Yes, Prior.
Yah!
(All roaring)
(Grunting)
(Shouting and screaming)
(Groaning)
(Grunting)
Gloucester's retreating
to the forest.
Stephen is given chase.
(Grunting)
(Roaring)
Robert of Gloucester,
I claim you as my prisoner
in the name of King Stephen.
(Sentry):
I can't see the King anymore.
(Grunting)
(Gasping)
(Soldier 1):
We have him!
(Cheering)
(Soldier 2):
The king is ransomed!
(Roaring)
They've captured the King.
Gloucester has won!
Sound the retreat!
Retreat!
(Soldier):
See them run!
What is it?
What's happening?
Your brother's been taken.
Oh God!
As has the King.
Our soldiers ambushed him.
Stephen's army is
sounding a retreat.
They're running away.
Your brother's men
are coming to free us.
We've won!
(Gasping)
(Man):
God save Queen Maud!
(Woman screaming)
(Clothing ripping)
Stop!
In the name of
Christ Jesus, stop!
(Crows cawing)
(Neighing)
(Neighing in distance)
We'll have to do
a bit of a dance,
but God is on our side.
Do you have your
story straight, William?
Pray God she believes it.
Why are you here?
You sided against us.
Your king lies in our dungeon
to be hanged tomorrow.
Why shouldn't you
hang with him?
My Lady...
We are not Your Lady.
We are Your Majesty.
Your Majesty, your half-brother
Robert of Gloucester
is a prisoner also, held by
what remains of Stephen's army.
His captor, one Richard
of Kingsbridge,
a blood-thirsty fellow.
I regret to say
we know him well.
If Stephen hangs,
Gloucester will hang higher.
You can save him.
By trusting you?
We are closer in sympathy
to Your Majesty
than Your Majesty might guess.
I was your brother's confessor,
and Lady Regan served
in waiting to his wife.
Yes.
I remember you.
I remember your face.
My brother the Prince and
his wife died in a shipwreck,
the one that started
this war of succession.
No one survived.
Weren't you supposed to
be on board with them?
Your Majesty, I was sent
ahead in another ship
with my young son,
who is with me today.
Your Majesty.
Who sent you ahead?
Why, your brother, the prince.
I was bringing good news
to the king, your father.
My Lady, the Princess,
was at last with child.
Why didn't we learn of this?
News of the shipwreck
reached the courts
before I did, Your Majesty.
I saw no reason to burden
your father any further.
What else are you
hiding from us?
Why nothing, Your Majesty.
Then why did you side
with Stephen against us?
(Whispering):
William.
I was raised at court,
Your Majesty,
and my parents were told that
if they did not support Stephen,
I would be killed.
Your Majesty has
a beloved only son as I do.
What would a mother not do
in order to spare his life?
Very well.
You may deal with this
Richard of Kingsbridge
and exchange our
dear Gloucester's life
for that of the
traitor Stephen's.
I assume they would
accept no less.
Our secretary, Father Francis,
will accompany you.
Your beloved only son, however,
will remain here as collateral.
Any hint of treachery
on your part
and I'll have your balls
on a platter...
all 6 of them.
(Screaming)
I'm here to see
the usurper Stephen
at the command of the Queen.
(Man 1): Hey!
Bring that through!
Hey, give me the key!
No!
(Man 2):
Hurry up with them, OK?
(Man 3):
Round them up!
You must understand,
Your Majesty,
we only side with
Maud to help you.
Once you regain your throne...
I'll see her dead.
In time...
Majesty.
(Man screaming)
But first...
she requires your allegiance
and public acknowledgment
of her as Queen.
That will never happen.
Rest assured,
whatever is writ today
can be scratched tomorrow.
May I tell her you accept?
I'd rather hang.
Then you will.
Once her torturers
have finished with you,
you will beg for her
forgiveness from the scaffold,
your neck will snap
and you will foul yourself.
Nothing noble in a hanging.
(Man 1): Hey!
Bring that through!
Do what you must.
In taking my leave,
I must perform an
unfortunate familiarity.
(Spits)
Do you see that priest there?
He's the one who betrayed
Bartholomew of Shiring,
the Queen's friend,
to Stephen, the usurper.
If you can get him
to admit to this,
she will be very, very happy.
(Grunting)
Come on.
(Giggles)
All the fleece
that's fallen out of sacks,
put in the basket.
Last year when we did this,
we ended up with
half a sack extra.
The profits are yours.
Oh, thank you!
Alfred.
What's wrong?
We received news from Lincoln.
- It's Richard.
T-t-tell me it's not Richard.
No, Richard is well.
It is he who sent word.
The King's army is fallen
and Maud now rules.
But...
Prior Philip?
Captured, not dead.
He's among those
to be ransomed.
(Breathing unevenly)
Oh god!
It is Jack who is dead.
(Crying)
(Inhaling)
(Sighing)
(Sizzling, groaning)
(Panting)
It's easy, Philip.
You're an honest man.
It's easy for an honest man
to tell the truth.
All you have say is that
you betrayed Bartholomew,
and ruined Maud's chances
of an early victory.
Say it. It's easy.
(Sizzling)
(Groaning)
I... I... I... I...
(Gasping)
I beg God to give me strength.
(Sizzling)
(Groaning)
Spare yourself, Philip.
You're not a martyr.
And you are not the Church!
(Sizzling and screaming)
Yes! Yes!
Yes!
(Panting)
I betrayed Bartholomew...
to you,
and you're the one
who betrayed Maud.
He has confessed.
(Gasping)
He is a traitor.
See that he's hanged.
Yes, Your Eminence.
In order to conserve
expenditures
and, God-willing,
meet the ransom demands
for our good prior,
I, as sub-prior,
order all work on the
Kingsbridge cathedral
to be stopped.
(All grumbling)
He's not dead.
I would know it
if he were dead.
He can't be dead.
I don't allow him to be dead.
I dreamed this would happen
and I didn't stop it.
(Sobs)
Why? It makes no
bloody sense!
It doesn't have to make sense.
This is part of
God's plan and...
God's plan?
If God has a plan,
it's not working out
very well, is it?
(Sobbing)
(Man):
Hang the traitors!
Bring out the rest of them!
Make your peace with God, man.
(Crow cawing)
Sync by honeybunny
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org